---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-08-26T00:53:14.861Z'
dateModified: '2016-08-26T00:52:41.031Z'
authors: []
publisher: {}
title: ''
author: []
via: {}
starred: false
sourcePath: _posts/2016-08-26-63667e29-42ad-4e12-af46-1f62ad50d4a3.md
url: 63667e29-42ad-4e12-af46-1f62ad50d4a3/index.html
_type: Article

---
State of Seizure

Agent Shivani Dubois, standing above most of the crowd, read the
high school gym as nervous, the two hundred students gathered here like
frightened animals in a corner. Except for the very young ones. They played
red-rover at the gym's center--further proof that Dr. Woodruff, tasked with
monitoring Glenwood Springs' students for the duration of the quarantine, wasn't
as incompetent as she pretended. Shivani fussed with a sleeve of her yellow
hazmat suit, making a show of making sure it was on correctly while the
psychologist lied to her. 

"Of
course," Dr. Woodruff said, tilting her old, venerable head, thick glasses
magnifying misty eyes, "Elisha might be anywhere." 

"No kidding," Shivani wanted to say. Not an
astute observation for the doctor who'd provided counseling to the girl for two
years. Seated on the gym bleacher, Dr. Woodruff gazed at the floor as if in
disbelief, her gray, bushy eyebrows raised. 

"Lots of hiking trails around Glenwood Springs. Lots
of caves too. She could be holed up in one. There's the arcade. Kids love that
place. Elisha is a big reader, so the public library, or Lancaster's Bookstore,
maybe. Might have gone to one of her friend's houses, or back to her own
house." 

The doctor's withered hand found its way to the
marble-sized turquoise beads of her necklace, and she flashed a brief,
discourteous smile. Shivani pretended not to see it. 

Shivani
Dubois was an agent with the FBI, working with the CDC and the U.S. Army Medical
Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, both of whose hazmat agents were
everywhere she looked. Shivani's dark brown features were lit by the blue glow
of her suit's inner lights. Though bored looking, she was aware simultaneously
of a dozen ongoing situations in the gym. As well, her clenching jaw was
worsening a mounting headache. 

And the psychologist was a terrible liar. 

Shivani rolled her eyes, wishing she had a piece
of gum. She hadn't eaten or slept in two days, ever since the report first came
out and the world's only test-positive, Elisha Su, disappeared. Shivani's boots
squeaked whenever she shifted her weight. The gym was loud with chattering. The
sleeve would seem okay by now, she figured, and she finally left it at that. 

The older students milled in clusters among the
cots or stood around the gym's edges. They stared in fear, amazement, and anger
at the hazmat guys blocking the gym's six doors. A few of the teens had
fashioned posters that read, "You are bringing the apocalypse," "U.S. Gov't
wiping out humanity," and "Where is Elisha?" Many had their phones out to film
the agents. Two had their phones trained on her in particular. 

"What do you think of that report?" she asked, her
voice strange as she heard it both inside her helmet and from a speaker on her
chest. Dr. Woodruff squinted her eyes, ready to lie. 

"You know," Shivani interrupted. "The one that
says the government infected people on purpose, that we used a virus the aliens
gave us?" 

It took the doctor another moment to gather her
thoughts. "It's true," she said tentatively, having discerned that this was in
fact an interrogation. "It doesn't make sense a virus would break out on the
exact same day in a hundred towns across the world. That was scary already. But
now. The report. Listen, Agent Dubois, nobody wants to be lied to, nor
experimented on. Especially with radioactive viruses, and especially still with
an alien virus. Add that list of test-positives consisting of a single name, and
Elisha seeing that. No wonder she ran off. If she ran off." 

"The alternative being?" 

"Someone took her." 

Shivani seated herself next to the doctor on the
bench, her yellow suit rustling as it bunched up. "Another thing," Woodruff said.
"If the virus--if you guys took it from whoever's on that ship up there and
gave it to us--I can imagine what's in store for Elisha or any other test-positive
who pops up. A lifetime of tests. Labs. Surgeries. Torture." 

"What
do you think of the other rumor?" Shivani asked. "That we kidnapped Elisha ourselves
and we're covering it up?" 

The doctor tilted
her head as though to consider it. But she wasn't considering it. She knows
it's not true, Shivani gathered. Then the doctor scowled, fighting to cover up a
rising frustration. The smart thing to do would be to allow herself to show
that frustration. 

"I have no idea, agent. I don't know what to say
to that. Except, let's hope not?"

The doctor's
eyeglasses reflected two blue, indistinct faces that Shivani barely recognized
as her own reflection. 

"Anything you think of," Shivani said, standing
up, "tell one of the guards to tell me." She pointed to the doors nearest them,
knowing the doctor wouldn't. 

The children gave her lots of space as Shivani walked
away. 

A guard let her pass. As the double doors shut
behind her, the chatter of the gym grew muffled and distant. She stood at the
hallway's trophy case, her ghostly reflection hovering there.

Dr. Woodruff wasn't wrong. A life of tests.
Labs. Surgeries. Torture. Dr. Woodruff and whoever she was working with had
every right to be paranoid, and to hide the girl. 

But there was something else. An implication Shivani
didn't like at all. Something left unsaid. 

Shivani had spent the previous two days combing through
videos, pictures, posts, messages, essays of Elisha, plus that of family and
friends. Sometime during the process, she could practically see the girl. She
could hear Elisha breathing. Sense what she was afraid of. 

Staring blankly at team basketball photos going
back longer than Shivani had been alive, she recalled the twitch to Dr.
Woodruff's eyes, the panic under her voice. Possibly Dr. Woodruff herself didn't
even realize it yet. But soon she or someone she worked with would do something
drastic. If nothing else, Shivani had to stop that from happening. 

Another guard at the end of the short hall
nodded his head as let her exit onto what looked like a sprawling crime scene
outside, with lots of metal blockades and yellow and black caution tape. An
agent in a white hazmat suit followed another past Shivani, carrying foam boxes
somewhere. Shivani felt suffocated in the suit. She made her way quickly out
into the parking lot, and stretched her back. The blue skies and white clouds offered
a contrast overhead to the confining quarantine, reminding Shivani of just how
much she hated being here. 

She strolled around the school building, sticking
to the parking lot. She came to a stop and gazed at the other side of the
street, which held a short strip mall. An insurance office sat next to 

. 

. 

next to 

, a few café tables and chairs out front. Unfinished
plates of food and water glasses on the tables, sitting there for two days now.

Shivani walked northward and turned the corner.
Mostly the school was surrounded by two-story houses. She watched a group of hazmat
agents crowd the porch of one house, file down and then congregate on the porch
of the next house. 

Above the town rose sand colored hills in every
direction, and as Dr. Woodruff had pointed out unhelpfully, they were
crisscrossed with hiking trails and caves. In each direction beyond the hills
lay a hundred miles of national forest. 

She studied the shrubby hills, the sporadic
cluster of trees. There was no way she could have made it there. Elisha had
disappeared only after the perimeter was set. 

The frown in Shivani's face tightened as she
thought of how nice a town Glenwood Springs might be. It promised the life any
kid would be lucky to have, and one she never had. And here she was, working to
rip away this girl from it all.

A military truck rumbled by behind her.

The
frown disappeared. "Huh," the speaker on her chest amplified. The psychologist
never mentioned her own secretary, Bob Raval. That's what bugged her.

She should report to her C.O., but she needed time
to think this through first. Pay Raval a visit. She mentally flicked through
the notes she'd taken, recalling the secretary's home address. 

Shivani turned away from the school parking lot
and headed into the neighborhood. 

Conspiracies abounded regarding how exactly the
aliens were working against humanity. Few believed that they had arrived to help
humanity. 

Admittedly, the world's governments were
terrifically stupid in how they handled it all. First, select towns went under
quarantine. Nobody felt sick, heightening people's anxiety. Then comes the report
that not only were people being experimented on, but with an alien virus. One
small town in Colorado was home to Earth's only test-positive so far, and she
quickly disappeared after learning this. Now Shivani was here, ready to drag
the girl back screaming. 

What Shivani didn't expect was the upwelling of
sympathy she felt for Elisha's accomplices, or kidnappers, as they most likely
were, despite what Elisha herself thought. 

These were unusual times they lived in: trusting
aliens, infecting humans at their recommendation. What are we doing? Shivani
asked. 

If she turned Elisha over, the rest of her life
would be spent in prison, essentially---or something worse, considering the endless
experiments. 

Running, she discovered, was awkward in the
hazmat suit. At least the streets were fairly flat. She checked a street sign
and turned a corner. 

She saw him just before it happened. 

It was only a split second, but it was enough to
get the basics: blonde mustache, green eyes. Small scar between eyebrows. Upturned
nose. Height, hard to say since the guy was lunging at her. Maybe 5'9\. Speak of
the devil, she was about to think. 

The impact knocked her back onto the concrete, Bob
Raval's weight heavy on her, and she felt a cold and sharp pain in her side. 

"Now you see how it feels," the guy wheezed. He
was up and running. 

Shivani clutched her ribs. An alarm in her suit went
off. 

"The suit is breached," a mechanical voice stated.
The blue lights within her visor now flashed red. 

Very helpful. I must be some kind of danger, she
thought, wincing and rolling onto her back. A puffy white cloud drifted across
a blue sky. How nice is that. Nice town. So sleepy. 

When Shivani woke, an I.V. was in her arm and it took a moment to
figure out what was suffocating her. The oxygen mask on her face. It was too
much oxygen. She raised her free arm and weakly dragged it off. 

The white tent told her she was in the USAMRIID
infirmary. She was down to her pants, shoes, and sports bra; her shirt was missing;
her abdomen wrapped in gauze and tape. The pain in her side was a dull throb. The
grogginess told her she'd been given medication. 

She heard a doctor or nurse nearby speaking to a
patient, an agent injured loading equipment off a truck. 

When the nurse approached her, Shivani asked, "I'm
infected, aren't I?" 

"Yes," the nurse replied, her voice coming out
of the speaker, her young, serious face glowing blue.

"My commanding officer. Tell Corporal Brenda
Burgess I'm awake."

"We have," the nurse said. "She's on her way
now." 

Sure enough, ten minutes later, Burgess was on a
chair next to Shivani's cot.

"What the hell were you doing out there?" 

"I needed to get a feel for the town," Shivani
said. "Dr. Woodruff was less than helpful."

Being treasonous, Shivani thought with alarm. God help that girl. They
were right to hide her. But they were stupid if they thought they could keep this
up. The CDC, USAMRIID, and FBI wouldn't rest, and that would lead to the real
trouble for Elisha. Shivani had to find her before the others did. 

Corporal Burgess took a breath and seemed to
brace herself. She leaned forward in the chair, her elbows on her knees. She kept
her eyes on the opposite side of the tent. 

"Your wound self-cauterized, Shivani. The nanites
cauterized it. He infected you, and he did it on purpose, whoever that was. Which
we didn't even realize that was possible. Our scientists have no idea how to
work with this thing yet." 

"There's more to it they haven't shared,"
Shivani said. "How the virus transmits results to the ship, and now this. What
else are they leaving out?" 

Corporal Burgess narrowed her eyes and looked at
Shivani. "What did you learn?" 

What Shivani didn't say: that Dr. Woodruff had
left out any mention of her secretary Bob Raval and the Zen garden he tended,
both of which popped up extensively throughout Elisha's diaries and social
media. 

What Shivani
did say: "If I'm going to learn anything, you have to let me do this alone.
There's a silver lining in this attack after all." 

Brenda leaned back in her chair and folded her
arms. She knew full well Shivani was holding out on her. But that was
Shivani.

"Who did it?" 

"He blindsided me. I didn't get a good look." 

"You don't need a good look. A glance should do."

"I got nothing. I just need some privacy. To
start reviewing the case. And the virus is supposed to be innocuous, right? So
I should be able to move around a little more freely." 

Corporal Burgess looked aggrieved by the
situation. She took a deep breath and rolled her eyes away from Shivani. 

"Your room is still open. Have you even
stopped by it yet?"

Indeed, Shivani hadn't. Each investigator had been provided a room
at a 

not far from downtown.
Not where she wanted to be. So instead, she'd been collecting data in the
field, i.e., going to the places Elisha frequented most. Now Shivani opened the
door to the hotel halfway across town and wheeled in a suitcase. She turned on
the lights.    

The room held a
single bed with a picture of a sunset over vaguely local landscape. She opened
the suitcase and unpacked newsprints and faxes, a map of the town, photos of Elisha
and her family, friends, Dr. Woodruff. She got out her laptop and checked the
news. 

The wound ached, but she was glad to be rid of the
hazmat suit. She already knew where to go, what she wanted to do. She just
needed the room to regroup and get ready. 

She took a shower and put on fresh clothes, made
some coffee, then sat drinking it at her laptop, all the while imagining the nanites
at work, swarming her body, communicating with an alien intelligence. 

The feeling didn't leave as she looked up images
from Glenwood Springs. Banners draped outside buildings throughout town read,
"Alien Conspiracy," "Why did you infect us?" and, "Traitors." Protests and even
riots had cropped up across the country, especially among cities untouched by
the virus itself. 

She
found herself looking at the enormous ship just outside Earth's atmosphere. It had
stationed itself there a year ago. She clicked among various views. No
communications, no announcements, just a sense of the worst. 

Her head began to swim. She went over to the
sink and drank some water from her cup, then sat back down. The light-headedness
was probably due to the wound and residual shock from the stabbing. 

The vision started as a sharp mounting of her
headache, which had never really left in all of two days. Now it spiked. She
pressed her temples as hard as she could. Her head swam in pain. Then the desk
began to pulsate a yellow glow. 

Everything, even her own hands on the desk--it
all glowed, everywhere she looked. 

A picture, clear as a movie, burst into her
mind. 

Night had fallen. She was under a porch
light, surrounded by a group of people, heading inside a house. 

She was back in the hotel, her desk back a
plain, glossy brown, the carpet maroon, the walls a dull shade of green. Yet a
terrible presence, like an intruder in the room, seized Shivani's attention,
picking up a corner of her mind, setting it back down, probing from afar. As she
tried to focus on it, however, the stab wound sang out with tremendous pain. 

She doubled over, clenching her stomach. 

She lifted her shirt and saw---extended through
the red-soaked bandages--it was monstrous. 

After a moment, she fell to the floor. A thick,
hard tendril, yellowish, about the size of a human finger, having poked through
the bandage, moved around as if blind and trying to feel its way into the room.

Shivani felt a tremendous burning each time the
tendril squirmed left or right, or stuttered in place. A scream caught in her
throat. 

Before she could vocalize, a voice flashed clear
in her head: "Now!" 

Shivani dropped down onto a trash bin behind the hotel, then
crawled down off of it. Dim streetlights glowed at either end of the alley. It
was cold out, and her headache was gone. The darkened window above remained open.
. 

Truck engines roared in the neighborhood. Two
helicopters chopped away in the distance, a third nearer, just a few blocks
away, lighting up alleys and backyards. 

Opposite the old moon hung a new super-bright
star. The alien ship. 

She darted out into the nearest side street.
Reaching it, she sidled up against a tree, then worked herself further into the
neighborhood. Beneath her shirt, the tendril lashed about, stinging her. 

She stuck to backyards, hurrying next to wooden
privacy fences and climbing them as needed. As she walked along a covered pool,
a dog barked at her from a sliding glass door. She started, then quickened her
pace. Any locals who might be shocked to see her wouldn't report her, she told
herself. By this point they'd chalk up most suspicious activity to the
occupation and locals subverting curfew. 

She was close, just a few blocks away, the
choppers far behind. 

Thank god, she thought. 

She dropped down another fence and walked to the
sidewalk. The moonlight this night was bright and more than enough to see by. 

She crossed the street, crossed the nearest backyard,
climbed into the next backyard for the house on the next street over. This yard
featured a garden with stone pathways. A Zen garden. She found the tool shed
she knew would be there. 

The tendril was going nuts as Shivani reviewed
her plan. 

The perimeter was so large there was no chance the
soldiers could monitor the entire thing. She could get Elisha past the
perimeter and into the hills. Elisha would hide there with provisions, she'd
tell her the direction to hike, and then Shivani would rendezvous with her well
past the interstate's checkpoints. From there, they'd drive as far away as they
could get.

Shivani hunched down in the shadows behind the
tool shed and peaked around the side. The house matched perfectly with the one she'd
seen in her vision at the hotel. 

The door opened, and a man stepped out onto the
porch. Blonde mustache. Shivani recognized him instantly. Bob Raval stared up
at a chopper's spotlight in the distance and lit a cigarette. He looked out at
the dark and at one point even looked right at Shivani, it seemed. She drew
back, then peeked again. Having smoked half the cigarette, he went back
inside.

Shivani had decided to break through a window, but
the voice returned, a vocal equivalent of the tendril, alien and prodding her and
suggesting its own plans. When she decided against it, the tendril twisted
until she collapsed to the ground, gasping for breath. 

A minute later, not entirely convinced by what she
was about to do, Shivani climbed the porch steps and approached the door. She tested
the handle. It was locked. 

Here goes nothing, she thought. She knocked on a
glass panel of the door. Some answered almost immediately. 

"We're expecting you," Raval
said, looking up at her through the crack in the door. 

The house was bright. Every lamp and celling light was on. Wood
floors, rugs, a sink full of plates, half-eaten casserole dishes on a table---the
remains of a potluck meal. About twenty people stood around the kitchen, dining
area and living room staring at her. 

They don't want me getting any big ideas, Shivani
saw. She winced as the tendril thrashed beneath her shirt. Some of those
gathered noticed and looked alarmed. 

"Listen, we don't have a
lot of time," she said. 

"Who does, anymore?" Raval answered, leading the
way through a short hallway. 

They went down some stairs to a basement. It was
one of those basements you could convert to an actual room, and it had been.
The floor was concrete, the room well-lit, with wood paneled walls, overlapping
area rugs. Elisha sat at a table behind a few standing adults. Five adults altogether,
three of them nervous. Bob Raval wasn't. Neither was Dr. Woodruff. Judging from
their posture, four of them had a pistol on their person, and each was
uncomfortable with it. Shivani carried two pistols and was comfortable with
them indeed. 

"Agent
Shivani," Dr. Woodruff said. She was seated over to the left, near the washer
and dryer, opposite the room from Elisha. 

"How'd you get
here?" Shivani asked. Woodruff smiled that discourteous smile of hers.

"You're not the
only one with a mysterious alien telling them what to do," the doctor said, gesturing
across the room to Elisha. The adults standing there stood aside. 

Elisha.
Dark hair fell down to her shoulders, just as Shivani knew it would. The
athletically built teenager wore a black 

t-shirt, blue jeans, and beat up sneakers. She looked at Shivani like she was
trying to make sense of something the agent had said. 

The tendril, going insane, was agony. The room began
slowly to spin. 

"It
was her, you know," Bob Raval said from the bottom of the stairs, where he
stood behind Shivani. "Elisha told us. She said, 'You'll find the agent at the
corner of Blake and Hyland Park. Take this knife.' And there you were. She
said, 'She'll come to us. She'll help us.' And here you are. So, how are you
going to help, Agent Dubois?"

Shivani
had crossed the room and knelt to focus on Elisha.

"How
do you feel?" Shivani asked. 

After
some silence, the sixteen-year-old answered, "I'm pissed off." Her dark
eyebrows framed a humorless face.

"You guys made everybody sick. You made me sick.
You want to take me away to maybe go off with some alien spaceship, for all I
know? You're tearing my whole life apart."

Elisha
looked aside, shifting in her seat. "But I've been getting the strangest ideas,
too. And really specific instructions. Like how to infect you with that knife.
And how to get Dr. Woodruff out of the gym after curfew tonight." 

"What we want to
know," Dr. Woodruff said, standing up, "is how to stop this whole thing. Like,
if they take Elisha---that's it. For all of us. For Earth. Those aliens say they
want to make humans into a space-faring species, but that's just to take us
with them as slaves. Anyone can see that."

The adults in the
room nodded. 

"And if we can't
escape?" Shivani asked. "What if you heard soldiers storming the house right
now?" 

They each stared
at the floor as if considering the matter. They didn't want to admit to the
worst of their plans. 

"We won't let them take her. No matter what,"
Dr. Woodruff said dourly. 

Elisha looked startled
at the half-admission, immediately grasping its implication. It was a terrible
situation. She couldn't trust anybody. She looked with despair at Shivani. 

The muffled sound of a chopper could be heard in
the room. Everybody in the basement tensed. A man standing nearest Elisha
reached behind his back. 

Then Elisha's eyes turned white. 

The yellow glow from Shivani's hotel room bled
around the girl's face, stretching out into the room. A dozen or more
finger-like tendrils. 

Then Elisha was gone, only a blank spot of
yellow and white light left behind. The shape of a person soon dissolved,
replaced by a much wider glob of light. 

A creature from another world had soon arrived. 

Slime, dripping
wet, fell and collected on the floor. An alarming, toxic smell rose up and made
Shivani dizzy. It was hard to look at. 

Everyone
had gone motionless. 

"Hello, Agent Shivani," said the alien's voice. 

Sometime
between the start of that sentence and its end, Shivani's mind collapsed. 

The barriers that kept memories separated from
the present fell apart. Her inner thoughts and the alien's voice comingled. 

"A
strange feeling, I know," the alien continued, its voice thick and wet and
wrong, the white noise of ocean waves crashing into clear, impossible words. 

"Your minds do not typically work this way,"
said the alien voice. 

The time-stop made Shivani want to cry. She sat
down on the floor. The orange glob towered above, its mass the width of three
people. Its tendrils were at once the small feelers like the one in her side
but also the length of the entire room. 

"I am Marqod,
ambassador for those you call The Aliens. I am broadcasting via the ship itself
and then via the nanites in your body. The tendril in your side is a
transmitting booster tower." 

Shivani
felt the alien's amusement slither across her mind. It was there that it caught
her many questions. 

"I
am not going to take over you planet. In fact, I'm not even aboard the ship
docked near your planet. That ship, rather, is manned by only a few custodial
robots. I am three trillion miles away, on a separate ship." 

At
that, something snapped deep in Shivani's mind. 

She stood as a child at the entrance to a pitch black
room. The horrors there came from the lives she would come to ruin, in combat,
in her career as an investigator, and crime scenes she would absorb, the
victims she could see, then back, again back, always back to this room, when a
horror emerged from the dark. 

Shivani's dark eyes widened and her mouth formed
a crimson oval. 

**The alien moved this way and to her other questions. **

**"Do we want you as slaves?" and then, "What
are my plans for Elisha?"**

The
alien made a sucking, gurgling sound, like 

Only after thirty or so seconds did Shivani understand
it was laughing.

"It's so strange,
the way your mind works." 

.
"The energy you generate when it goes to worst possible places. It's delicious.
And so easy to push you there when you're confronted with the unknown. Why, I
hardly have to push at all. Such succor! And don't get me started about human
empathy, a powerfully generative force indeed. Take your vision. The one you
had in the hotel room. That was delightful, for me. It had all the makings for
a truly wonderful meal."

It studied Shivani's confused face, then said, "The
vision was yours entirely! The nanites did not generate that. And it caused you
such exquisite pain." 

Shivani looked around the room. Elisha, Dr.
Woodruff, Bob Raval, the others, all looked bloated, like sweaty, rubber dolls,
their skin rubbery and damp, their eyes unblinking.

Shivani slowly turned her head to look at the alien
abomination again. 

"So strange," it continued, "how I slip behind
your brain. How this transmission collapses your faculties. Such mental
collapse is further confirmation of what I already knew. Humans are not equipped
for the pressures of travel. This is what concerns me. This is why I'm here." 

At the same time, Shivani realized the alien had
never stopped laughing, never stopped the gurgle, slurp, pock noises. 

She was beyond dizzy. The room was a whirlwind. The
creature's tentacles flowed outward and upward, toward the walls and ceiling's wooden
beams, as if in an underwater current drew them there. 

Then it took particular interest in the man who
had placed his hand behind his back to rest on the gun. A tentacle moved in his
direction. 

"That strange lizard brain of yours short-circuits
continuously into shocks of consciousness. You're like blades of grass topped
by glowing bulbs of electrical activity, your minds never at ease with the
arrangement, having inherited the ill-suited state of seizure from those who
were just as horrified by it as you. So odd." 

The tentacle drove into the man's stomach,
though he didn't seem to notice. 

"It gives you a moment to think, but the
thinking makes you insane, abusive, paranoid, and still you cannot endure the
fabric of space, much less the techniques required to travel it. You'll never
leave your solar system. You'll be lucky to travel to its outskirts." 

"As
for my plans, I will not enslave you. I and my species have no need for your
labor. On the contrary. Our own survival depends on the survival of other forms
of life. As life flourishes for one life form, so does each species stand a
better chance of flourishing itself, thus increasing everyone's chances of
long-term survival. This is our ultimate and simple goal." 

It lurched here
and there in her mind, turning over pieces to address, so that she could
understand it. 

"Humanity
is at an evolutionary dead end, Shivani. I have come to save you, if nothing
else, for my own benefit. I will give you this assistance and then to be on my
way. Likely we will never cross paths again. You, however, will go to your
early grave with this meeting haunting you all the while." 

Shivani knew it was true. The alien was filling
her future with afterthoughts, aversions, and nightmares. Forever he would be
haunted by the motion of the tendrils. 

"You want us to colonize the stars?" Shivani
struggled to articulate, at least for her own benefit. 

The thing undulated grotesquely in response.
Then it said, "Precisely." 

The tendril connected to Elisha's would-be
attacker pumped and flowed, filling the man with nightmares and taking in whatever
the alien wanted. The alien pocked and slurped in delight. Shivani looked away.

"This girl is integral to my assistance. And
make no mistake: these people would kill this child. Other agents have rifled
through the same material as you and arrived at the same conclusion. They'll be
here in minutes. The people in this room will act out of fear and paranoia and
a deep-seated resentment they have for Elisha. Dr.Woodruff especially hates
her. You must not only promise but actually begin to help Elisha escape the
quarantine." 

Shivani realized with a start that she was lying
on the floor, staring up at the ceiling. 

"Then hand her over to your team. Allow the
mechanisms in place to do their jobs." 

"The mechanisms
in place," Shivani croaked, her mouth dry, sickened by it all. She got up to
her elbows. "These mechanisms will ruin Elisha's life. She'll be locked up
forever." 

The alien
responded with a blast of indifference. It was enjoying its meal too much. 

"The dreams are too delightful to pass up before I leave. I'm
sorry. But the agony you people produce is just terrific. I'm really enjoying
myself right now." 

Then it opened her mind to see what else was in
store: all those in the room, near the transmission, including Shivani, were
being heavily irradiated. It was the cost of the transmission. What's more, the
alien was at this exact same moment causing irreparable psychic damage to all
who were infected with the supposedly safe virus. 

"Your government,
as you know could offer Elisha more hospitable arrangements. But you won't. And
you and everyone here will die a miserable death. And those elsewhere, with the
virus, I would like to see them suffer. Especially this guy right here. He was
about to kill Elisha on the spot." 

One of the Marqod's tendrils had attached to the
guy's abdomen, undulating rhythmically as if gulping down everything within.

A disturbing
question occurred to Shivani. 

"If
you had found us incapable of evolving--if there were no Elisha, and none like
her, what would you have done?"

"Mostly
lots of eating, for me. I would spread the virus in a flash, a much more
volatile version of it, and I would feast for a hundred years on human misery.
Then I would set about stripping your planet of any materials we require. Alas,
it is not the case, thankfully for you." 

The creature laughed and laughed.

"Tomorrow
night, however, when you are alone with only a few of them and Elisha, sneaking
around in the dark, hand Elisha over to your commanding officer." 

"As for you. You will be commended and promoted.
Later you will develop countless tumors due to this transmission. But you will
die a hero." 

When
Shivani awoke, the dull, damp rubbery bodies had returned to life, and Shivani
saw the difference was entirely in her mind. Something inside her had broken. 

The
man who had been fed off of sat down and shook his head. 

They were all staring at her,
as if they'd forgotten what they were just about to do. Elisha especially
seemed to be waiting for an answer. 

Shivani thought of Glenwood Springs. The streets,
the pleasant yards and families, the small-town life she had never known, and
now which Elisha would soon look back on as a distant memory. 

"I
have a plan," Shivani said, before she could convince herself otherwise, averting
her eyes from Elisha's.